1
WILD CATS
LEOPARD
They live and hunt alone. They guard their territory fiercely. They won't allow any other leopard to enter their territory. They are very adaptable in their eating habbits. They will eat any animal that they can catch from dung beetles up to small buffaloes. Dog is its preferred food. It will also kill a monkey, but those are hard to catch.
2
WILD CATS
CARACAL
It is half as big as leopard. It's very shy and will most likely run as soon as it sees or hears you. It is a long, slender cat. It can be golden brown, grey, black or occasionally a dark red. It has a short, bushy tail. It is found in Asia and Africa.It hunts mainly rabbits, mice and rats. It can bark like a dog to warn others of danger
3
WILD CATS
JUNGLE CAT
It looks like a pet cat. It enjoys sunning itself on cold days and sometimes hunts during the day. The jungle cat is common throughout Asia. It is also found in Egypt. THe jungle cat is grizzled. It has two black stripes around its front legs and black tear stripes running from its eyes to its niose. It likes to approach its prey quietly and stealthily and suddenly pounce.
4
DOGS
INDIAN JACKAL
The jackal is ablut the same size as the pug dog but is longer and thinner. Their faces are more pointed than dog faces. They are very shy. Jackals hunt small birds, rodents, young lambs, kids and fox kits, and insects. Some enjoy fruit such as jujube and vegetables. In Kerala, jackals are known to eat coffee seeds. Jackals are so closely related to dogs and wolves that they can mate with each other and produce puppies.
5
DOGS
RED FOX
The wily fox of folklore is one of the most successful hunters on world. It is a small animal, only about 60cm long. The fur varies in colour. The tail is long and very bushy with a white tip. They catch live animals, especially rodents for food. They live in dens. They usually hunt alone.
6
DOGS
BHUTIA
Bhutias are large dogs. Bhutia dogs are big balck animals, similar in size and build to a Labarador dog. They were raised to guard sheep on the high Tebetan plateau with freezing, windy winters.They are used to accompany the sheep and give warning if a leopard approaches.
7
DOGS
TIBETAN MASTIFF
It is a very large black and brown dog with a big, square head. Like the bhutias, the Tibetan mastiffs are well suited to the cold winters in the Himalayas. Their tale is not so well adapted to the climate. Most shepherds cut the tails of puppies. In the Darjeeling area we found that many people also cut off most of the dog's ears for the same reason.
8
RODENTS
BLACK RAT
They spread in Europe by 100 AD. Although they are properly called the black rat, they come in a range of colours and are often more a greyish brown. They weigh upto 350g. They are very good climbers and can climb up and down drain spouts. They eat just about anything. They also eat seeds, nuts and fungus.
9
RODENTS
LITTLE INDIAN FIELD MOUSE
This tiny mouse is only about 6cm long. Its tail is about as long as its body. They dig tunnels and burrows in the ground. Mices cannot see well but have a very good senses of smell and hearing. Mice are eaten by cats, dogs, civets, martens, weasels, otters, snakes, and birds of prey. Mice strt to reproduce at the age of fifty days.
10
RODENTS
INDIAN CRESTED PORCUPINE
The porcupine is a very large rodent. A porcupine measures almost 1m form the tip of its nose to the end of its tail and often weighs almost 20kg. It has very sharp quills covering its back and tail. If another animal approaches porcupine, it rattles its tail to warn the animal to keep away.
11
SHREWS
ASIAN HOUSE SHREW
The Asian house shrew is also called the grey musk shrew because of its odour and the money shrew because it makes a noise that sound like rattling coins. Its body measures about 6 to 10cm.It weighs about 50-100 grans. Its main defense against predators is its musk or scent.
12
CIVETS
SMALL INDIAN CIVET
It is much the same size as a house cat, but a little longer with shorter legs. They live throughout India except in Jammu and Kashmir, in the higher mountains, and on the deserts. The small Indian Civet is brwnish grey or yellowish brown with rows of dark spots from neck to tail.
13
CIVETS
LARGE INDIAN CIVET
They are found in Himachal and northeastern India. It also lives in Nepal and Bhutan. Its numbers are decreasing and the species is considered near threatened by the International Union for conservation  of Nature. They are 80 cm long and weighs 8 to 9 kg. The tail is about 50 cm long.
14
MONGOOSE
INDIAN GREY MONGOOSE
It is found throughout India as well as Pakistan, Nepal and Sri Lanka. This animal is famous beacuse it can kill snakes and even cobras. It can do this because it is so fast. The thick fur also attracts human hunters. The fur is used to make paintbrushes. An adult mongoose is about 1m long. It is very slender and weighs just over 1 kg.
15
MONGOOSE
YELLOW THROATED MARTEN
It is about the same size and shape as a grey mongoose. An adult is about 50cm long and weighs about 3kg. Its tail is slightly shorter than its body. They usually hunt in pairs. 
16
INDIAN WILD BOAR
INIDAN WILD BOAR
In the Puranas the boar is portrayed as an avatar of Vishnu. Today they are found throughout Europe and Asia and across North Afria. Their intelligence has helped them to survive so long. The Indian wild boar is brown.They are 1 to 1.5m long and weigh about 100 kg. They are very serious fighters.
17
PRIMATES
RHESUS MACAQUE
It is the only monkey in this area. They roam about the forest in search of their food. It is brown or grey in colour. Its tail is only about 20cm long and is used mainly for balance. They live in large groups. Within the group, they have very definite ranks. They have become a major nuisance in Himachal towns and countryside.
18
HARES
INDIAN HARE
Hares and rabbits are called lagomorphs. The adult hare is almost half a metre long. It weighs only 2 to 3 kg. They mainly live alone. They come together only for breeding. One to eight babies, called leverets, are born after about forty five days.
19
DEER
INDIAN MUNTJAC
It is also called the barking deer because its call sounds very much like a dog barking. It is a very pretty little deer. It is a darkchestnut brown. They live alone or in pairs.
20
BATS
BATS
The only animals that can truly fly. They mostly prefer to sleep hanging upside down. They are active mainly at bight and find their way around in the dark by echolocation. Most of the ats eat insects.
21
SNAKES
HIMALAYAN MOUNTAIN KEELBACK
The keelback snakes get their names form the bridge found on each scale on their back. It is found from 1000 to 3600m above sea level in the mountains. It is a small, harmless snake that varies greatly in colour and markings.
22
SNAKES
CHECKERED KEELBACK SNAKE
It is the most common snake in India. They are not venomous. They are very alert and will attack to defend themselves. They eat mainly fish, toads and frogs. They do not want to attack you.
23
SNAKES
GREEN KEELBACK
It is another very common non-venomous snake. The green varies from very bright to dull or yellowish green. They have large black eyes with round pupils. The adult snakes are generally about 55 cm long, although some may be a metre long.
24
SNAKES
INDIAN OR COMMON RAT SNAKES
It is another common, harmless snake found in this area. It can look like cobra, a banded racer, and a king cobra. The head of the rat snake is broader than the neck. These snakes are active during the day. They eat lizards, frogs and toads, birds and small mammals.
25
SNAKES
INDIAN ROCK PYTHON
It is found throughout India and in Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. The rock python is a big slow-moving snake. The main colour of this python is dirty yellow-brown on the back and off-white on the belly. Pythons breed in the winter.
26
SNAKES
RUSSELL'S VIPER
The Viper is a fat snake.It appears rogh because its scales are strongly keeled. it eats mainly bondicoots, gerbils,voles, rats and mice. The young are about 23 cm long at birth. They mature in about three years. They are basicially the slow moving mammals.
27
SNAKES
COMMON KRAIT
Krait venom is very strong. Anyone bitten by a krait needs to be taken to the hospital immediately. It is often glossy black with a blue sheen. They have narrow white bands, often in pairs on the back part of their bodies.They live in fields, scrub jungles and near buildings.
28
LIZARDS
NORTHERN HOUSE GECKO
The lizards that most of us know best are the house geckos. The northern house gecko is a flat brownish grey lizard with small bumps all over its back. Its toes are spread far apart, making almost a half-circle. Geckos are mainly active at night. They are territorial.
29
LIZARDS
BROOKE'S GECKO
This Gecko is very similar to the northern house gecko. It lives on trees and stones, under rocks and on buildings. At night it makes loud chuck chuck chuck call
30
LIZARDS
COMMON GARDEN LIZARD
It appears outside in the spring. It is basically a dull brown or grey. The body can be as long as 14 cm with 35 cm tail. The lizard is active during the day. It mainly eat insects, but the larger ones sometimes eat small birds, frogs or other some animals.
31
LIZARDS
KASHMIR AGAMA
It is common in the western Himalayas. It is a medium sized lizard, about 10cm long with a 15 cm tail. This lizard likes the higher, rocky mountains. It lives in the holes and cracks in the stones. It is active during the day. It can be very destructive if it makes way to your garden.
32
LIZARDS
HIMLAYAN GROUND SKINK
Skink are small lizards. They eat insects. It is a small shy lizard that likes to hide under leaf mould in damp places. It is only about 12 cm long. It has shiny smooth scales. They are territorial.
33
TOADS
COMMON INDIAN TOAD
We find it outside our front door during the summer. You also find them under street lights. It lives upto its name. It adjusts easily to live in many different places. They have grey backs, although their colour ranges from brownish to reddish grey. Their stomachs are white. The males fight for a mates.The black tadpoles hatch in about four days.
34
TOADS
MARBLED TOAD
It looks very similar to common toad. It has short webs between its toes and the second toe is larger than the others. Their habbits are very like those of the common toad
35
TOADS
ORNATE MICROHYLID
These frogs are named for their small heads. It is very small. An adult male measures only 2.5cm from its snout to the end of its body. The female is slightly larger measuring upto 2.8cm. The arrow point rests between its eyes. It eats mainly ants.
36
TOADS 
HIMALAYAN GRIFFON
Their bodies measure more than 1m from the top of the head to the end of the tail. They do best jumping off from a ledge to soar on updrafts. They build their nests on ledges and cliffs.
37
TOADS
ASIAN PARADISE FLYCATCHER
It is a very pure white from its neck to the end os its long tail, and it has its easily recognised swooping flight. The head of the male is black and crested. Their stomachs are almost white. They look very much like bulbuls. These birds build small cup-shaped nests of grasses and fibres.
