1
LEOPARD
Indian leopard (Panthera pardus fusca) is a leopard subspecies widely distributed on the Indian subcontinent. The species Panthera pardus is listed as Vulnerable on the IUCN Red List because populations have declined following habitat loss and fragmentation, poaching for the illegal trade of skins and body parts, and persecution due to conflict situations.
2
CARACAL
The caracal (Caracal caracal) is a medium-sized wild cat that lives in Africa, the Middle East, Persia and the Indian subcontinent. It reaches 4050 cm (1620 in) at the shoulder, and weighs 818 kg (1840 lb). The coat is uniformly reddish tan or sandy, while the ventral parts are lighter with small reddish markings. The caracal is characterised by a robust build, long legs, a short face, long tufted ears, and long canine teeth.
3
JUNGLE CAT
The jungle cat (Felis chaus), also called reed cat or swamp cat, is a medium-sized cat found in China, the Indian subcontinent, the Middle East and central and southeastern Asia. A member of the genus Felis, that consists of small cats.
4
INDIAN JACKAL
The Indian jackal (Canis aureus indicus), also known as the Himalayan jackal is a subspecies of golden jackal native to Pakistan, India, Bhutan, Burma and Nepal.ts fur is a mixture of black and white, with buff on the shoulders, ears and legs. The buff colour is more pronounced in specimens from high altitudes.
5
RED FOX
The red fox (Vulpes vulpes), largest of the true foxes, has the greatest geographic range of all members of the Carnivora family, being present across the entire Northern Hemisphere from the Arctic Circle to North Africa, North America and Eurasia. It is listed as least concern by the IUCN.
6
TIBETAN MASTIFF
The Tibetan Mastiff is a type of large Tibetan dog breed (Canis lupus familiaris). Originating with the nomadic cultures of China, India, Mongolia, Nepal and Tibet, its use by local tribes of Himachal Pradesh was to protect sheep from wolves, leopards, bears, large mustelids, and tigers.
7
BLACK RAT
The black rat (Rattus rattus, also known as the ship rat, roof rat, house rat, Alexandrine rat, old English rat, and other names) is a common long-tailed rodent of the genus Rattus (rats) in the subfamily Murinae (murine rodents). Black rats are generalist omnivores. They are serious pests to farmers as they eat a wide range of agricultural crops.
8
LITTLE INDIAN FIELD MOUSE
The little Indian field mouse (Mus booduga) is a species of rodent in the family Muridae. It is found in Bangladesh, India, Myanmar, Nepal, and Sri Lanka. Head and body length is 7cm. Tail is 6cm. Upper parts a glossy light brown fading to grayish white or white on the ventral surface.
9
INDIAN CRESTED PORCUPINE
The Indian crested porcupine (Hystrix indica), or Indian porcupine, is a large species of Hystricomorph rodent (order Rodentia) belonging to the Old World porcupine family, Hystricidae. The Indian crested porcupine is a large rodent, weighing 1118 kg. Their body (from the nose to the base of the tail) measures between 7090 cm, with the tail adding an additional 810 cm.
10
ASIAN HOUSE SHREW
The Asian house shrew (Suncus murinus) grey musk shrew, Asian musk shrew, or money shrew is a widespread, adaptable species of shrew found mainly in South Asia. It is a large shrew with a strong musk smell. It is related to the Etruscan shrew.
11
SMALL INADIAN CIVET
The small Indian civet (Viverricula indica) is a civet found in South and Southeast Asia. It is listed as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List because of its widespread distribution, widespread habitat use and healthy populations living in agricultural and secondary landscapes of many range states. The small Indian civet is a monotypic genus.
12
LARGE INDIAN CIVET
The large Indian civet (Viverra zibetha) is a civet native to South and Southeast Asia. It is listed as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List. The global population is considered decreasing mainly because of trapping-driven declines in heavily hunted and fragmented areas, notably in China, and the heavy trade as wild meat.
13
INDIAN GREY MONGOOSE
The Indian grey mongoose or common grey mongoose (Herpestes edwardsii) is a species of mongoose mainly found in southern Asia, in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and some other parts of Asia. In North Indian languages (Hindi, Urdu, Punjabi, etc.) it is called Nevalaa. The grey mongoose is commonly found in open forests, scrublands and cultivated fields, often close to human habitation. It lives in burrows, hedgerows and thickets, among groves of trees,taking shelter under rocks or bushes and even in drains. It is very bold and inquisitive but wary, seldom venturing far from cover. It climbs very well.
14
YELLOW THROATED MARTEN
The yellow-throated marten (Martes flavigula) is an Asian species of marten which is listed by the IUCN as Least Concern due to its wide distribution, evidently relatively stable population, occurrence in a number of protected areas, and lack of major threats. The yellow-throated marten is the largest marten in the Old World, with the tail making up more than half its length. Its fur is brightly colored, consisting of a unique blend of black, white, golden-yellow and brown.
15
INDIAN BOAR
The Indian boar (Sus scrofa cristatus), also known as the Andamanese pig or Moupin pig[2] is a subspecies of wild boar native to India, Nepal, Burma, western Thailand and Sri Lanka. The Indian boar differs from its European counterpart by its larger, more sharply featured and straighter skull, its smaller, sharper ears and overall lighter build.
16
RHESUS MACAQUE
The rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta) is one of the best-known species of Old World monkeys. It is listed as Least Concern in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species in view of its wide distribution, presumed large population, and its tolerance of a broad range of habitats. Native to South, Central, and Southeast Asia, troops of M. mulatta inhabit a great variety of habitats, from grasslands to arid and forested areas, but also close to human settlements.
17
INDIAN HARE
The Indian hare (Lepus nigricollis), also known as the black-naped hare, is a common species of hare found in the Indian Subcontinent and in Java.
18
INDIAN MUNTJAC
The Indian muntjac (Muntiacus muntjak), also called red muntjac and barking deer, is a common muntjac deer species in South and Southeast Asia. It is listed as Least Concern on the IUCN Red List. It has soft, short, brownish or greyish hair, sometimes with creamy markings. This species is omnivorous, feeding on grass,fruits, shoots, seeds, birds' eggs as well as small animals. It sometimes displays even scavenging behavior, feeding on carrion. It gives calls similar to barking, usually upon sensing a predator (hence the common name for all muntjacs of barking deer).
19
WATER BUFFALOES
The water buffalo or domestic Asian water buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) is a large bovid originating in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and China. The skin of river buffalo is black, but some specimens may have dark, slate-coloured skin. Swamp buffalo have a grey skin at birth, but become slate blue later. Albinoids are present in some populations. River buffalo have comparatively longer faces, smaller girths, and bigger limbs than swamp buffalo.
